---
layout: "../../layouts/BlogPost.astro"
title: "SpookyJam 2020"
description: "Get the pumpkin spice ready, because it's spooky time again! Join us in October for our fourth annual SpookyJam!"
pubDate: "Sep 28 2020"
heroImage: "/spookyjam-2020.png"
---

Hello everyone, and welcome to the fourth annual SpookyJam! This is our fall celebration for the modded Minecraft community. During SpookyJam members of the community create new mods that fit the spooky, dark, fall/autumn seasonal theme. Participants are encouraged to challenge themselves and learn new skills. All of the newly created mods will be showcased by our team and included in our modpack and public server.

You can follow the event by joining our Discord. Participants are also encouraged to use the `#SpookyJamMC` tag on Twitter to share their progress and updates.

## Jam Guidelines

The following list of guidelines are in place to provide a fair experience for all participating in the event. These guidelines are not strictly enforced however not following them may result in your project being excluded from certain aspects of the event.

1. Projects should be made between the 1st and 31st of October.
2. Teams are allowed. We recommend a limit of four members.
3. Submissions should fit the theme of SpookyJam.
4. All code and assets should be created during the event.
5. Submissions should run in a server environment without crashing.
6. Submissions should work with 1.16.3 and be compatible with the latest release of Forge and MCP.
7. Third party libraries and dependencies are allowed. You're responsible for any issues they cause.

The event officially starts on the 1st of October and ends on the 1st of November. We use the UTC time zone for this event.

## Prizes & Rewards

All participants who make a valid submission will receive a `SpookyJam2020` role on Discord. This is a visual role that commemorates the event. Participating projects will also be promoted by our team and included in the SpookyJam2020 modpack.

## Submissions
Submissions can be made by leaving a comment [here](https://gist.github.com/Darkhax/0abbabcef574799f9641879accc76a96) with the required info. While the deadline is the 31st of October we **highly recommend** submitting before the 21st of October. This will ensure that your project makes it onto the server and our modpack.

## Minecraft Server
We will be hosting a public server featuring the submissions for this event. Details on how to join this server will be made available at a later date.

## Additional Events

We highly encourage everyone to consider taking part in Digital Ocean's [Hacktoberfest](https://hacktoberfest.digitalocean.com/) challenge. They will be giving out free limited edition shirts and sticker packs to anyone who signs up and creates four pull requests on GitHub. Contributing to SpookyJam submissions is a great way to support the community and complete the Hacktoberfest Challenge.

Additionally this year we are hosting the [Modtoberfest Challenge](https://modtoberfest.com). The Modtoberfest Challenge is similar to Hacktoberfest however participants contribute pull requests to verified Minecraft Mod repos. Those who complete this challenge will receive a free mega sticker pack featuring stickers from various community projects.

## FaQ

**Can I be part of multiple teams?**    
Yes, you may be part of multiple teams.

**Can I submit multiple entries?**    
Yes, however spammed entries which are of very low quality may not be considered for the event.

**Can I use Fabric, Forge 1.12, or Bedrock edition?**    
While this is technically allowed we will not be considering entries other than those that support Forge 1.16.3 for our modpack and promotion. This is largely due to technical reasons. If you're interested in a Fabric fall festival we would recommend checking out [FallFest](https://modfest.net/fallfest/1.16/).

**Do open source contributions count as team members?**    
No, the team member limit only counts for people who are actively part of your team. 

**Can we have more than four team members?**    
The recommended team limit was put in place to help newer modders join teams. We will not be enforcing this as a rule however we recommend teaming up with people you haven't worked with before.

**I need help coming up with an idea?**    
Learning how to improve your own creativity is part of SpookyJam's goal. Everyone has their own creative process and this is generally something you have to learn yourself. A few things which may help with inspiration is [/r/nosleep](https://www.reddit.com/r/nosleep/), [/r/TwoSentenceHorror](https://www.reddit.com/r/TwoSentenceHorror/), [Cryptid Wiki](https://cryptidz.fandom.com/wiki/Category:Cryptids), [Terror.ca's random horror movie picker](https://terror.ca/movies/random), [Halloween](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Halloween), and [Autumn](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Autumn). 

**Can I submit previous year's entries?**    
Yes, previous year entries that have been updated can be included in a limited capacity. We want to focus on promoting the new mods however previous submissions will be allowed in the modpack and server.

**Can I submit mods that have never been part of SpookyJam?**    
Yes, however this will be done on a case by case basis. We want to focus on promoting new submissions.